Rich Dad Poor Dad:

0 : Most important thing for you is to think. THink about poeple ( thier abilities, i.e learn people), think your surroundings ( whats happening , how will it shape the future, )

1. Genius is someone who is extra ordinarily good in a particular domain.

2. Vision is what determines who will be a leader and who will be a follower. Great leaders can how see how a situation will play out and take action in response.  keep on observing the world and their sorrounding and then infer about it. 

3. You have to be improve at Vision and Interpersonal intelligence, 
	i.e start connnecting with people, talk  to them, know about them, understand them, 
	for vision keep thinking in the direction you want to move into 

4. find out your learning style, that will help to build confidence, and with confidence you will be able to take more risks
	My learning style is mixture, it need to read-undestand in some depth and then build some part of it and then iterate.


5. Instant gratification will override every big thing thats gonna happen to you. Think big, work for it, have patience and you will do big. 
   Salary/paycheck comes under instant gratification,  building a sustainable buisness is long game play.

6. Keep using your brain and then you will see opportunities. Once you start seeing these opportunities then there is no end. 

7. 3 kind of income:
		1. Ordinary - Normal paychecks.
		2. Passive -  money that you earn while you are not working, i.e setting up buisnesses / getting royalty
		3. Portfolio - Income from stocks  shares and equity
	You can only become rich with passive and portfolio income. Ordinary will only always fullfill you basic needs.

8. Rick people acquire assets, poor people acquire liabilities who they think are assets. 
   Assets in simple terms are those things that put money in your pockets. 
   Liabilities pull money out of your pocket. 
   Buy assets that produce income.

9. 2 kinds of debt, bad debt wher you have to pay for your debt, good debt where your investment pays for your debt.

10 Get out of rat race and fast track your life.

11. Work to learn, not to earn. You must look at the opportunity and not the salary. 
	If work only gives you money, in comparison to work with also gives you learning, what the better deal? 
	Learning will let you create more opportunities, these opportunities will lead to passive income, Hence will leadyou to path of becoming rich.
	
12. Have a mentor/coach. Ask from those who have already been there.

13. Keep investing in liabilites and you will for your life remain middle class.

